# Minutes for the 29th of February, 2024

## Attendees
- Martino Sorbaro (Secretary)
- Samantha Ahern
- Menglan Xiang

## Agenda
- Introductions and current state
- Future of the committee and blog post about it
- Miscellanea

## Notes
- The meeting started with personal introductions, as this was the first meeting of the LPGC incorporating the CAC, namely Menglan.
- We then summarized the recent activities of the LPGC and CAC:
  - Menglan: in the first year I  was a member, several issues discussed about various lessons, for example about defensive programming in python lesson.
    I participated based on content, knowing R better than Python. Much less active during the second year. Tobi solicited our help with a project and I was in charge with a section of that.
  - Sam: the LPGC is a new committee, about a year old, formed by myself, Martino and Valentina. The first part was figuring out what to do and how to work with the CAC. We also audited the lessons.
    We were planning to also work with the incubator looking for new lessons, checking on the Matlab one that is not maintained. We also worked on the website.
- We worked on finalizing the [blog post](https://github.com/swcarpentry/governance/wiki/LPGC-response-and-SWC-governance-changes) where we will announce the merger of the two committees.
  We approve its current state and agree that Martino will seek Valentina's approval, then will contact Tobi on how to submit it to the board of directors and have it published.

### Miscellanea
- Sam: a [Collaborations Workshop](https://www.software.ac.uk/workshop/collaborations-workshop-2024-cw24) will be held soon, organized by the SSI (which is tightly connected to the UK Carpentries community).
  Sam seeks permission to hold a lightning talk on the future of the LPGC and a workshop to encourage people to collaborate on working on lessons. The committee is very happy with the plan.
- Sam: the state of the Matlab lesson should be discussed. We leave this discussion for another meeting.
- An idea for Community Discussions emerges: have some discussions chaired by maintainers, where instructors are invited to give feedback on the lesson. The LPGC could encourage and support maintainers
  in holding one per year per lesson or so. This could be useful for maintainers to decide on issues where they are unsure of the best path, together with the  community. The LPGC could also hold
  a community discussion asking for general feedback from the instructor community on the SWC structure.

## To be discussed next time
- State of the Matlab lesson
- Idea for community discussions
- Outcome of the blog post
- Outcome of the collaborations workshop
- Status of new maintainers recruitment

The date of the next meeting will be decided asynchronously.
