# **Minutes – November 18, 2025**

## **Attendees**

* Sarah Stevens (Chair)
* Deborah “Debs” Udoh (Secretary)
* Magnus Hagdorn
* Toby Hodges (Director of Curriculum, The Carpentries)
* Joey Bernard (Co-chair)
* Aman Goel

## **Agenda**

1. Welcome & icebreaker
2. Decision request: SWC R-Novice-Gapminder Issue [\#932](https://github.com/swcarpentry/r-novice-gapminder/issues/932)
3. Visioning discussion for 2030
4. Short-term priorities (tabled to next meeting)
5. If time: Review LC Governance Committee’s lesson adoption process
6. Next meeting

## **Notes**

### **1\. Welcome & Icebreaker**

Participants briefly introduced themselves and shared one of their favourite Carpentries lessons to teach.

### **2\. Decision Request – Issue \#932 (R-Novice-Gapminder lesson)**

Issue: Whether to move the lesson from R Markdown to Quarto.

* **Magnus:** The wider ecosystem beyond R could benefit from Quarto; a good direction.

* **Aman:** Less experience with RMD/Quarto but notes Quarto’s popularity across the open-source community.

* **Joey:** Has used Quarto extensively and appreciates that it is not tied to a single language.

* **Toby:** Pointed to an incubator lesson on reproducible Quarto publications. Feels it aligns more naturally with Data Carpentry workflows but worth reviewing for potential fit with SWC.

* **Sarah:** Proposed adding a small explanatory box about Quarto to the lesson, followed by organising a sprint to support full conversion.

**Decision:**  
The committee agrees to recommend a community sprint to migrate the lesson from R Markdown to Quarto. Sarah will reply in the GitHub issue thread with the decision.

Toby noted that Q1 2026 [community session scheduling](https://docs.carpentries.org/handbooks/community_session_host.html) closes this week for anyone interested in proposing the sprint.

### **3\. Visioning for SWC by 2030**

Members reflected on the future of the lesson program. Notes are grouped into three prompts.

#### **3.1 What about the current SWC would you like to see in 2030?**

* Accessibility, openness, and EDIA principles (Aman).

* Community-led and accountable structure (Aman).

* Emphasis on in-person training where possible (Joey).

* Keeping self-organised workshops and the helper system (Debs).

* Strong social environment, supportive teaching culture, and well-structured materials (Magnus).

* Continued focus on Unix, Git, and a programming language for novices (Sarah).

* Active Maintainer community (Sarah).

* Effective delivery methods and teaching-quality focus (Martino).

#### **3.2 What do you think needs to change about SWC by 2030?**

* Make the structure of SWC and The Carpentries easier to understand; broaden audience, including Digital Humanities and non-STEM researchers (Aman).

* Regularly review infrastructure (Zoom, Slack, Etherpad, TopicBox) for usability, openness, and accessibility (Aman).

* Clearer curriculum roadmap and how SWC connects to Incubator/Lab pathways (Aman).

* Strengthen the integration of pedagogy and maintain human-centred teaching even when teaching “software” (Aman).

* Potential new lessons on AI, green computing, etc., where appropriate (Aman).

* Provide more mathematical/scientific background for techniques taught (Joey).

* Reduce fragmentation in communication channels (Joey).

* Ensure lesson schedules used in workshops are realistic; add more culturally aware examples (Debs).

* Re-evaluate how Git is taught: possibly exploring GUI-first or GitHub-first approaches while considering pros/cons (Toby, with discussion from others).

* Ensure Git lessons reflect multiple forges, not only GitHub (Magnus).

* Develop more intermediate-level lessons and define a clear adoption pathway from Incubator/Lab to official lessons (Sarah).

* Increase frequency of updates to match community needs; include new technical topics (ML, etc.) (Martino).

#### **3.3 What new things would you like to see in SWC by 2030?**

* Establish clearer committee voting rules.

* Expand intermediate and next-step lessons (e.g., reproducible publication workflows, ML-focused lessons) (Sarah).

* Explore new opportunities for lessons needed by the community (multiple members).

* Members will continue adding further thoughts asynchronously over the next month. The committee will revisit these items at the next meeting to identify concrete action items.

### **4\. Short-Term Priorities**

Deferred to the next meeting due to time.

### **5\. Library Carpentry Governance Committee Lesson Review Process**

A link was shared for future discussion: [https://github.com/carpentries-lab/reviews/issues/33](https://github.com/carpentries-lab/reviews/issues/33)

Time did not allow for a *detailed* discussion.

## **Action Items**

* **Sarah** to respond on GitHub issue \#932 with the committee’s recommendation.

* **All members** to continue contributing asynchronously to the 2030 vision notes.

* **Committee** to identify short-term action items at the next meeting.

## **Next Meeting**

Scheduled for **2025-12-16**.

